The next thing we're gonna do is we're
going to write the actual index.html
followed by a null
terminator after that slash.
So if you look up here, we can see, okay,
we want to end up with blog
followed by /index.html.
So we've got our slash here, but
we don't have the index html and
also we don't have
the null terminator there.
Like as this thing continues on,
it's got like the ht headers and
all that stuff in there.
There is no null terminator after
the l and html like we want.
So we need to actually
copy all the bytes for
index.html followed by a null
byte after this slash right here.
So here's how we're gonna do that.
So we're gonna call memcpy, or memcpy,
but everybody pronounces it memcpy.
This is another C built-in function
that comes in the standard library.
And I'm gonna pass in end + 1 and
then index.html and 11.
So let's kind of break
down what this is doing.
Basically, so the end + 1,
so end is essentially,
through all the stuff
we've been doing before.
We've arranged it so that the memory
address of end is this trailing slash that
we now have guaranteed to be right here,
the + 1 is going to say, okay,
move it over one slot after that.
So now we've got the memory address of
whatever comes right after the slash.
This is the destination.
I don't know why mem copy takes
the destination first and then the source,
but it does.
So basically we're saying,
look, start writing the bytes.
Copying these bytes to right here.
And then the source thing is index.html,
okay.
And this is going to basically copy it,
basically saying like,
take all of the bytes in this memory
right here and put them right here.
And then 11 is how many bytes we want to
copy from the source to the destination.
So very similarly to the right function,
this is once again,
a function that's taking three integers.
First we have a 64 bit integer which
is the address of the destination, and
then we have a 64 bit integer which
is the address of the source.
And then we have how many bytes do
you want to copy from the source into
the destination?
Now if we look at the characters here,
index, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10.
Why are we passing 11 when there's
only 10 bytes in this string?
Does anyone know?
Why would we pass one more byte to memcpy?
And so we wanna copy one more byte than
the length of this string, which is,
there's 10 bytes here.
We wanna copy 11 bytes over.
The null zero.
Exactly, we want to copy
the null terminator.
So essentially,
we want to write index.html, and
we also want to write that
null terminator over there.
Now, because this is C, there actually
is a null terminator in there.
When I write this string letter like that,
C does that for me automatically, so
I don't need to put in
the explicit backslash zero here.
I can just copy 11 bytes,
and we know that C is going to
have null terminated this for me.
Anyway, there's gonna be
0 byte right after that.
All I need to do is specify
that I want to copy it.
So this is little bit of a using the thing
that we did in the first exercise for
bad purposes to try to break things of
passing in a length to an operation that's
actually longer than the string.
But here we're actually doing it for
justice because this is
actually a good idea.
Like we actually do want to copy
that extra null byte there.
And it's a little bit more efficient.
If we did put a backslash zero here, it
might be a little bit more explicit, but
then it's a waste of a byte because then
we've got two null bytes back to back when
we could just copy in the null
byte we've already got, okay.
So in summary,
what this function call is going to do is
it's going to take our original string,
which now has /blog/ guaranteed whether or
not there was a slash there original.
And then it's going to
copy in this index.html,
it's just going to stomp right over
the HTTP 1.1 that's right there,
followed by the beginning
of a header after this.
So once we've completed this operation,
this original request is useless.
This is no longer a valid HTTP request.
We've just slammed this blog /index.html.
Right into the middle of this thing.
And then what we're gonna do is
return the the initial address there.
Of note, one thing we can do to make this
like a little bit nicer is we can actually
define a variable here called like default
file, which is gonna be index.html.
And then we can make it a little bit
clearer that we are intentionally doing
one more than the length of it
because we want the null terminator.
And we can do the strlen default file +1
with the understanding that since this
is a constant,
like this is a string literal,
this strlen is just gonna
get optimized away anyway.
And this is all going to compile
down to just an 11 there anyway.
But at least if we write it this way,
it's a little bit more obvious that we are
intentionally getting one more byte than
what's actually in the string's length.
Also of note,
normally if I were doing this,
I wouldn't make this be
a local variable like this.
I would actually just
bring it up to the top and
say const char star
default file equals voila.
Const is essentially a special
keyword that you use when you're doing
things like either at the top level, like.
Sort of where the functions are defined.
I think you can also do
it in line if you want.
That basically just says yeah,
this is something that I'm not able to
mutate these other things
I can like start and end.
We can mutate them,
we can change them as we go along.
But this is actually saying, yeah,
no, I'm just defining this once, and
then it's always gonna
be that memory address.
I'm never going to go in and change this.
Also there is a convention of
if something is a constant,
you do it in all caps snake case.
So also known as screaming snake case,
whereas with local variables,
that's the conventions to
just have them be snake case.
Okay, so here's our final
memcpy with this constant, and
this is gonna get us
the index.html that we want.
Cool, okay, and then the final thing that
we're gonna actually do is we're going to
return, the actual, start here.
But this does, so this is going to like
get us back the actual like a blog
/index.html that we, that we want here.
Now there is a problem here,
which is what if the request is too short.
This is gonna come up in the exercise.
So in other words.
Let's suppose I'm doing this memcopy and
I'm copying into an X509 email right here.
But we can see, okay, there's HTTP/1.1.
But what if there wasn't that HTTP/1.1?
Or what if the string ended right here?
There wasn't quite enough space for
that L in there, or maybe for
the null terminator.
What happens if we get
an HTTP request like that?
Well, first of all, this shouldn't come up
in the wild in theory in the sense that
like any browser is just always
gonna send you some headers here.
So you definitely have some
more string to work with.
But in practice,
that's something that like you really
would rather not leave to chance.
You really don't wanna try to
make an assumption about that.
And when you have like a third
party that's sending you this data,
that's how exploits happen.
And this is a good example of what we're
the approach that we're taking right now.
First of all, it's like pretty unusual and
it's not what I would do in most
program language is even though in
c it is like a defensible choice.
But it does have security
downsides if I don't explicitly
go outta my way to check for that case
where I'm doing this memcopy onto.
Destination that doesn't have
enough sort of bytes, like,
semantically for what I'm trying to put
here again, C, there's no guardrails here.
Like, C is really just gonna be,
like, okay, I got three integers.
I've got, like, here's where I'm gonna
write to, here's the memory address that
I'm gonna write from, and
then here's the number of bytes.
If that number of bytes writes off the end
of the string, c does not care at all.
It's like, yeah, I don't know,
whatever memory is there,
I'm just gonna stomp all over it.
So we really want to make
sure to handle that case.
We want to explicitly go out
of our way to check for this.
But this is yet again another
example of memory unsafety in C.
If we don't remember to or don't think
to go out of our way to check for
that case and we just write this code
as is, this could be an exploit vector.
This could result in, if any user agent
doesn't send us a full string that, like,
intentionally omits that, this could do
some very bad things when this memcpy
stops all over whatever bytes
happen to be in memory there.
It could seg faults,
any number of things could happen.